it seems like the genetic algorithm doesn't really change too much in performance
when k gets bigger, but branch and bound is VERY sensitive to k.

Also, injecting a theta=5 k=2 into the boxes dataset shows that the genetic algorithm
gets it in about 10 seconds, whereas the branch-and-bound gets it in what seems like a minute, forever

7.26.26

HOWEVER, when k=2, the genetic algorithm tends to get great solutions. When
k is 3 or something like that, it tends to act crazy and find those solutions with only one node on one side
and a ton of nodes on the other. I'm trying to update the fitness function and create a mechanism by which k
can evolve so it can still find those solutions when k = 2, even if the initial k value was 3.
This could eliminate having to tune k as a hyperparameter -- you just set it to theta - 1, and then the algorithm
will find a large, balanced solution.
Because otherwise, if you set k too high, it will greedily grow until it can't anymore, and it will remove
more balanced solutions that have k = 2 rather than k = 3. A solution with k = 2 might not have any more nodes
able to be added because adding any other node wouldn't be connected to enough and might set k higher than theta.
That's why the solution is maximal in the first place -- you can't add any other nodes to it.
So by greedily growing to k = 3, the algorithm might be too liberal at the start and find solutions that already
have too many missing edges to regress back to k = 2 and then become maximal.
The solution is either (or both):
* Have k evolve. This would do away with having to tune k.
* Create the initial population with every valid value of k. Then offspring choose a k value at random, so what turns out to be the best k
    value would evolve anyway.

Could we do something like run the genetic algorithm once, check the k value that it returns, and then run it AGAIN with that initial k value?

When I set theta to 6 for a GA on a graph with a k=2 theta=5 MDB, GA found it. When I set theta to 5, it instead just found a 4x3.
The number of nodes that GA explores is _crucial_ to how effectively it can find a solution. Wonder if there's a way to significantly
reduce the number of nodes. Could we count the number of times each node appeared in the best P solutions for each generation,
and then rerun the algorithm with ONLY those nodes?

Idea

Could I train a GNN to predict which nodes are likely to appear in a k-MDB, then just run the branch-and-bound or GA on those?

Problem I'm currently facing: the genetic algorithm struggles when there are more than, like 100 nodes. It finds good solutions, but not the optimal solutions.

Idea

Instead of implementing tabu, could I instead have an intermediate fitness function that penalizes less if you have some missing edge
budget left?

7.27.26

Observation

Theta-based heuristic relies on theta, whereas k-based heuristic relies
only on k. The only place it needs theta is in determining whether to return the solution
or not. But because a theta-based heuristic is probably always going to be more effective,
we don't even need to limit the solutions that the k-based heuristic returns. We can just... use it

Theta is a bandaid fix to the problem of balancing a k-MDB. The bigger thing we want is just a balanced
biclique. Although, theta is helpful. After what point do we not care about balance and instead care about maximizing
vertex count? So maybe theta _does_ matter.
Instead of theta, can we instead just reward balance less as the number of vertices goes up? Could this be what the
genetic algorithm solves?

7.28.26

ACO would solve real-world evolving graphs where we need to add extra vertices and edges

7.29.26

Could we have ACO walk through once the branch algorithm gets to a large C_0?

Because these algorithms take far less time, we don't necessarily have to tune theta that much.
If there are too many nodes, ACO will likely still find a great solution, so theta isn't as necessary
to get right. It's just there for speed, really.

Setting pheremones to 1 instead of 0 made ACO much more effective. My hypothesis is that
when pheremones were set to 0, in node desireability, we had to say if the pheremone was 0,
then just multiply by 1 for the degree. This had the effect where after a ton of iterations, nodes that
were never explored had a pheremone of 0, which evaporation still set to 0.

On grocery with an injected biclique of p=10 q=8 k=4, theta heuristic got only an 8x4, whereas
ACO got the full 10x8

Idea

Can we try the theta based heuristic, or the ordering based reduction, from V instead of U and
see which one is most performant?

Ordering based reductions saves only u's 2-hop neighbors. But it doesn't do the same for V. What if
we also removed any nodes that were more than 3 hops away from u?
- I realized this is a dumb idea. By finding u's 2-hop neighbors, we're also essentially cutting out
N(u)'s 2-hop neighbors, so we're already cutting N^3

Idea

Can we use ordering-based reduction with ACO by running it on the subgraph instances that each iteration gives.

Ideas to still add

TO GET THE GRAPH FOR ONLY NEW EDGES, WE CAN JUST SIGNIFICANTLY BOOST PHEROMONE ON THOSE EDGESS
AND VERTICES
Significantly increasing

ANOTHER THING WE COULD DO:

Maximum WEIGHT k-defective bicliques
    Could both adapt the current maximum algorithm and also use ACO to demonstrate its effectiveness

8.2.26

crazy idea: Cui et al. says that Chen et al. proposed a coloring-based upper bound. you can't color a bipartite graph -- you'd just color U one color and V another. But if you run the algorithm for a little, clearly see some nodes that can't be with other nodes, and then color -- could you have a massive upper bound, or adapt it to more efficient k-defective clique problems?

PHENOMENAL IDEA:
HAVE REPAIR ON THE BEST SOLUTIONS, AND THEN ONLY AFTER REPAIR, YOU USE THE SIZE TO DETERMINE WHICH GET THE PHEROMONE

PHENOMENAL IDEA:
AFTER EACH ITERATION, DELETE NODES THAT JUST ARE SO UNDEREXPLORED LIKE THERE'S NO WAY IN HELL THEY'LL EVER BE EXPLORED
HAVE SOME THRESHOLD, LIKE AFTER PHEROMONE IS < ..., DELETE
The threshold should also be dependent on the number of ants, because with more ants, the threshold should be looser. The intuition is,
with more ants, any node would be likelier to have been explored, including bad nodes. So the threshold should be lowered, as in, more aggressive pruning to match the number of ants.

FUCKING FANTASTIC IDEA:
After ACO, take the top z% of nodes by pheromone, or nodes that pass a certain pheromone threshold, then run BnP on THEM to get the
optimal solution. ACO essentially becomes a fantastic graph reduction algorithm

Look at Hooi et al. (2016 or 2017) in the original Cui et al. to show that bicliques can actually
reflect fraud.

Run branch and bound on the ACO-generated to get a final solution

GREAT IDEA

Have ants deposit pheromone on values of k to start with on initial nodes so even if you overshoot k,
it can still get the right answer.

GREAT IDEA

Run Branch and Pivot ON THE PHEROMONES ... so it prioritizes nodes that are more pheromoned

Try not softmaxing... but doing it linearly


FUCKING FANTASTIC IDEA

WHAT IF WE DON'T SCORE JUST BASED OFF OF DEGREE, BUT BY 2-HOP DEGREE, TO PRIORITIZE THE NODES
THAT WILL GIVE US MORE NODES?

Future: maximum WEIGHTED biclique or smt?

BIG BIG BIG BIG BIG BIG BIG IDEA
    What if, instead of ant colony optimization, we just have a heuristic that adds nodes that
    can still be added with the maximum degree, with the prefer-nodes-on-one-side thing.

Could we just run tabu search on the final solution?


FREAKING PHENOMENAL IDEA:

What if, if the intersection of the most recently visited node and the candidate set is null, we work backwards and
try every past node, or at least the past M nodes, and only then do we default to the entire candidate set

GREAT IDEA:

What if we have fewer ants, but once they've exhausted the biclique and they can't add anything else, they can backtrack and probablistically choose at every branch of the tree
whether to continue from that past point or keep going into the past? Then, instead of iterations, they just run for a damn long while, syncing information with pheromones so they can see what might work (or maybe not doing that, maybe instead,
we just seed them each from different nodes). This way, they don't get stuck in a local optima. The intuition is, it's not like TSP - one bad node in a biclique can _devastate_ the maximum option.